>> Zac Gordon: Enqueueing JavaScript is
the process of loading it onto a theme or
into the admin area using PHP functions,
okay?
So the PHP that we're gonna use primarily
comes down to these two functions.
So wp_enqueue_script(); is going
to be what we actually set up, and
that will load our JavaScript behind
the scenes into our theme dynamically.
So that's great.
Then, we're going to kind of hack or
hijack something that was not intended for
what we're using it for.
But wp_localized_script(); because
WordPress runs in so many different
languages and it's really big on being
translatable, easily translatable, and
easy to run in other languages and
easy for other people to translate.
wp_localized_script(); was meant so that
you can pass different versions of words,
so you can pass different languages,
so localizing the language or
information into your JavaScript.
So this process we hijacked because there
are times we wanna take PHP data or
stuff that WordPress has,
and we wanna load it and
make it available in our JavaScript
without having to use the API, right?
So if you have a PHP file,
and it has some data,
how do you get it to
talk to that JavaScript?
You could load it into the DOM, and then
pull it out of the DOM, and use it that
way, but you could also inject it
directly and we'll look at that process.
So this is what
enqueue_script( looks like.
It takes a few different parameters and
I have them broken down, line by line.
So the first parameter that we
have is a unique-handle-name, and
we can name this whatever we want.
Commonly, it'll be
something like theme-js or
mythemeness or like view-js or for
loading view or something like that.
So this first one is something that you
wanna be able to, at a glance, look at and
tell what it is.
And then, in other places,
if you ever wanna say like,
hey, pass this extra data into this file,
you'll call it by that name.
The next parameter is the path
to the actual file itself.
And so there are a few different
ways to dynamically get a file.
So in WordPress, if you have a theme, all
of your theme files are gonna be at like,
yoursite.com/wp-content/theme/nameofyourt-
heme/asset/js/file.js, right?
But you do not wanna hard code that
whole thing because what happens if your
theme name changed?
What happens if they installed an earlier
site like all these other things?
So get_stylesheet_directory_uri() is
going to give us a shortcut to get
into that folder, and then be at the root
of our theme folder and from there,
we could say, hey, go into our
assets js file and grab that file.
So pretty straightforward.
The other really cool feature that
enqueueu has is dependencies.
So normally, when we load
JavaScript the old school way,
and we put one script tag and
then another script tag and then another,
we know that that order matters, right?
If we try to put jQuery review
at the bottom of it and
call jQuery stuff before that's loaded,
we have issues, right?
So what this handles because in WordPress,
we're not gonna be able to hard code
anything, it could setup
dependencies this way.
So let's imagine I had two scripts,
I had my helper script and
I had my theme script.
If this was my theme script where it says,
dependency handles, I can say,
handles-js, and
it will automatically make sure that
my handles one comes before my theme one,
and we'll use this quite a lot.
The other one we're actually
gonna avoid most of the time and
this is a great feature but
it's really annoying in development,
so WordPress will cache all your CSS and
JavaScript files.
And one of the ways it does this is
by adding a version number onto it.
So if you put in here, I'm on
version 1 of my JavaScript file, and
I save a bunch of changes in my
JavaScript file, you won't see those
changes necessarily show up on your
site unless you clear your cache.
But if you change the version to 1.2,
then it'll pull it in, right?
Does this make sense?
Head nods, yeah?
So we're gonna cheat this a little bit.
And instead of passing
in a version number,
we're gonna pass in a timestamp
down to the seconds.
So this means that every time WordPress
loads a page, we have dynamically put in
a new version number that's just
like a second or a few seconds off,
so it won't cache it so that we don't have
to clear our caches we're developing.
But once you're done, you don't want
that to happen because you want your
JavaScript running as fast as possible,
right?
So the very last thing is something
that we usually leave to true and
it's a Boolean of true or false and
it just tells WordPress whether you wanna
load your JavaScript in the footer,
if it's true and it's by default true, and
you could set false and
it'll put it in the header.
So WordPress has two hooks that we'll
look at at one point as we get into here.
It has a hook called WPHead and
WPFooter, and
behind the scenes it
feeds everything in here.
So if a theme is missing WPHead, it'll
break a lot and if it's missing a tag of
PHP called WPFooter, that's how it
injects everything in the right place.
So that's enqueue script,
pretty straightforward and
we will look at this so many times today
that if this is not making sense now,
it will be literally second nature
by the time we get out of here,
along with this other one
called localized script.